We do have a bit of a problem
at the moment that our
ESLint doesn't know how
to check TypeScript.
And obviously,
we want the ESLint to check TypeScript.
We used to use a project called TSLint.
TSLint is now deprecated.
And that team just basically said,
you know what,
everyone should just be on ESLint.
So they actually augmented ESLint with
the ability to check things based on type
in addition to all the other
things I was doing before,
which was the ability that
TSLint had that ESLint lacked.
It's a bit of ceremony to
get it all set up, but
I'll show you how to do
it right really quick.
So if we go in to package.json, let's
make sure that we have everything here.
Yeah, this is all good.
So, we are going to open our code editor.
So we're gonna do npm install -D
eslint-import-resolver-typescript@2.4.0,
by the way,
you can totally copy this out of my notes,
you do not have to follow along with me,
@typescript- eslint.
This is the name of the project that does
the bridging between the two, by the way.
/eslint-plugin@4.16.1@typescript,
-eslint/parser@4.16.1.
Okay.
I probably misspelled something?
Eslint-import-resolver-typescript@2.4,
eslint this.
Let me just grab it out of my notes,
rather than make you sit here and
debug it with me.
So we're down here in TypeScript and
ESLint and
I want you to grab this line right there.
And still has a problem here,
could not resolve dependency eslint.
I have eslint@ version 8.
So it wants to be at 7.
All right, well,
let's just take the version off of these.
I might have you install
too old of a version here.
The versions that I want to install for
this are, And
actually I can just kinda start that
piece again with the correct versions.
So, and
then I'll fix this in my notes later.
I went into an npm, oops, npm install
-D eslint-import-resolver-typescript@,
eslint import, I have 2.5.0,
then we are gonna do, let's see here,
@typescript- eslint/eslint-plugin@.
And this one is supposed to
be version 5.13.0, and
then we're gonna do
@typescript-eslint/parser,
and that's also at version 5.13.0.
Okay, and that should give
you all the tools that you'll
need to be able to run ESLlint
on your TypeScript project.
Okay, come back to your package.json.
And then here on your lint function,
we're just gonna add ts and
tsx in here as well, cuz we wanna run
now eslint on those projects as well.
Okay, Let's
go fix our eslintrc.json to
make this run typescript stuff.
So the next thing to run in here, just
again, make sure this is above prettier.
The order of these does not matter in the
extends except that prettier must be last.
So we're gonna do
plugin:@typescript-eslint/recommended.
Okay.
We are gonna turn off one rule here,
is @typescript-eslint/no-empty-functions.
We use in one place in our application and
I think it's fine, so
we're just gonna turn that off.
Okay, here instead of plugins,
this one doesn't matter.
You can put them in any order,
we're just gonna add @typescript-eslint.
This will augment the ability of of ESLint
to check TypeScript specific rules.
Okay, here in the settings array
down here underneath react,
we're gonna put import/parsers.
We have to tell it how to
import TypeScript files,
otherwise it would just
ignore TypeScript files.
Or rather it wouldn't ignore them, but
you're telling it that you have to use
a different parser for it to work.
So typescript-eslint/parser.
And you're saying use this
parser on anything that ends in,
as you may guess, .ts or .tsx.
Otherwise it's gonna use the normal
JavaScript ESLint parser.
Okay, one more thing underneath here,
we're gonna put import/resolver,
you have to tell it that on TypeScript
files to always try the types.
Okay.
It's a bit of, again,
a bit of ceremony to get this all set up.
It's better than it used to be.
It used to be a hot mess
to set all this up.
And you might say this is
just a medium mess, and
I am much happier with
the medium mess than hot mess.
Life advice from Brian again.
Okay, so
what happens now if you say npm run lint?
It works.
Let's enforce type checking.
So under here, under extends here,
we're gonna add, Plugin:@typescript,
-eslint/recommended-,
requiring-type-checking.
Okay, so this worked and it had no
problems and everything was fine.
Now I think if we run npm run lint,
it's going to be extremely upset at us.
On this one, you have to give
it the project, that's right.
This one,
I think you just have to do here.
All right, we need to add one more thing.
And that is here in the parser options,
you have to tell it where
your TypeScript configures.
So you can just say here, "project": and
then you just tell it,
you can have multiple
project files, we obviously only have one,
it's just we type ./tsconfig.json.
And then put a comma there.
Now ESLint knows where your
project configuration is.
So now if you say npm run lint, we'll get
a whole slew of TypeScript errors that
if we were not doing all our migration
all at once, you would not do this.
But because we gonna be
doing this all at once,
this makes sense because now
we can go piece by piece.
And by the end of this, we'll have no
TypeScript errors, no ESLint errors.
And yeah, and
then we can keep going from there.
So, yeah, one thing I wanted to show you,
if you go over here and
you click on this link.
You can see here that's actually
adding a bunch of new TypeScript
specific rules in terms of
how to write good TypeScript.
And additional cool typing checking
kind of things that ESLint would not be
capable of, but now TSLint, sorry,
ESLint is capable of checking
in conjunction with TypeScript.
That's all here.
So I'll leave you to go through and
check all those,
everything here that has a wrench
next to it means it can auto fix it,
which is pretty cool, so,
a bunch of really cool stuff.